I've come to a place where there are
clues about our current evolution
and I'm going to meet someone he
believes that on these tombstones
there's evidence that natural selection
itself might be dead
[Music]
this is a good place to remind ourselves
the patterns of life and death which are
the raw material for Darwin's great
engine of evolutions natural selection
they've changed dramatically in the 21st
century compared to the 20th and in the
20th century compared to the last 10,000
years and to me that says that natural
selection at least if it hasn't stopped
has at least slow down
[Music]
most of these graves are 19th century a
bit before and here's ones that look
classic from the 1870s somebody died in
their 40s and then if you go down
there's young Robert died aged three
months then another one we can't really
the name so lots and lots of childhood
death and that's true on nearly all
these graves as you come through you see
dead babies under these gravestones five
months I mean these are individual
tragedies but they also tell us
something important about biology and
the figures are quite amazing in
Shakespeare's time about one English
baby in three made it to be twenty-one
in the year of Darwin's birth how about
one English baby in two sorry but now
99% of English babies make it to be
twenty-one and it's a nasty thing to say
maybe but these dead children these were
the fuel the raw material of natural
selection many of those kids died
because of the genes they carried but
certainly just just personally I'm
asthmatic and I would have probably died
as the child so I wouldn't have been
able to polish my genes and had it not
been for the modern drugs which got me
through I think the real reason what
that evolution has come to an end is
partly modern medicine but more
important perhaps modern engineering
it's worth remembering that even in the
year of the Origin of Species that the
House of Commons had to put rags in its
windows soaked in Bleach because of the
stench of the filthy water in the Thames
people died of cholera in their millions
that's all gone do you think there's a
slight danger that we're being a little
arrogant and perhaps a bit short-sighted
and thinking that we have removed
ourselves from natural selection because
when the next really big disaster comes
along it'll be back I think that's
probably true you know we don't know
what that disasters going to be but
there are all kinds of horrible things
just lurking around the corner the one
which is really worrying is epidemic
disease people or there are so many
people who travel around so much that
it's certainly possible that something
like the Black Death or cholera could
come back
[Music]
it's clear that our lives have been
transformed in the last couple of
centuries that medicine and engineering
now mean that we are much safer that an
individual is much more likely to
survive to adulthood and at least get
the chance to pass their genes on
so this really could be as far as well
go the technological developments of the
last century may have brought us to the
end of the evolutionary line but for
that to be the case we need to keep in
control of disease forever
you